# Default of Credit clients
## Introduction
In this assignment, we predict customer defaults for a credit card payment using a dataset having customers’ financial and demographical details. The objective is to find out the patterns and trends that have an impact on default behavior, engineer meaningful features so as to build machine learning models based on them to make accurate predictions. A structured process was followed—data preprocessing, exploratory data analysis (EDA), feature engineering, model building and evaluation. Key insights from the analysis include the impact of credit utilization and payment history on defaults, and how Random Forest, Gradient Boosting, and Logistic regression models performed compared to each other to recommend which model would be best to deploy.

# Problem Statement
The problem we are addressing here is the prediction of customer defaults on credit card payments for the following month. The goal here is to identify customers as high likelihood or low likelihood to default, given their financial behavior and demographic information. This prediction is essential to minimise the credit risk for financial institutions, optimise their allocations for collecting customers, and provide targeted interventions to the at-risk customers. Utilizing the record of historical data for such indicators as payment history, billing amount and demographic parameters, the objective is to develop an accurate predictive model that can prevent the losses; simultaneously enhancing the decision making process of customers in this domain.
